---
layout: post
title: The State of Humanity.
date: 2020-11-14
description: Discussing man apart from God. 
---

The events that have led up to this moment in history are quite the story. Full of uncertainty, triumph, disaster, and at times great despair. It’s the story of humanity apart from God.

I perceive history the same way I do time; a seemingly infinitely long string that has a beginning and end that were determined by its creator; in this case God. The timeline of human history is the string, and our current point on the string is you reading this article at a specific point in time.

Instead of a static string, I imagine it being highly dynamic. Every point permeating light, complexity, and potential. Every moment of the past superimposing on itself to create the present, towards a future that God has deemed worthy of existence. A future that He is intimately involved in.

I imagine myself being an observer of this string, looking behind me in the distance I see all these great moments in history that have defined it. The Bronze Age Collapse, the fall of the Roman Empire, the rise of Christianity, Jesus birth and resurrection from the dead, the world wars, you’d be able to see it all. 

At least, that’s my attempt of perceiving time as a being bound by it.

Looking closer into time on the string you see Empires rise and fall, presumed great men succumbing to their selfish desires, the immense struggle of power, philosophies that were supposed to uplift humanity; instead plunge it into darkness, war throwing civilization into chaos, the rich subjugating the poor, the powerful overbearing the weak, the list goes on. Ad infinitum.

It’s a heartbreaking story.

All of what I described above is the direct result of sin entering the hearts of humanity. Some call it the “Fall of man” or simply the “Fall” but it was the moment Adam and Eve sinned in the garden by completely disregarding a rule specifically given to them by the God of the Universe. (Genesis 3)

Biblically speaking, we were originally created to be in perfect unity with God. To glorify Him, and to be in perfect relation with Him. When Adam and Eve rebelled against God that dramatically changed. The entire framework of their future, and our history from that point onward shifted towards where we are today.

Adam and Eve knew there was a God, and knew that He was their Creator. Here in the 21st century that vote wouldn’t be unanimous unfortunately.. 

Instead of looking to and fellowshipping with God in all things, man would instead look inwards towards self. The world you see today is the direct result of this, full of disorder, unrest, discontentment. Completely and utterly void of all purpose and meaning apart from God.

Deep down in every person's spirit I truly believe that they know there is something greater than themselves, that there is a god or something similar. Throughout history humanity has an inclination towards the thought of the divine. This is no coincidence. 

Every person has the imprint of his creator; God. A spark of divinity which in itself is incredible. This lays at the very core of what a person is. There’s a sense of longing towards something that seems lost long ago, something old and archaic that we can’t quite remember. And that I believe is our identity, more importantly our identity relative to God. Humanity has lost its identity, and has no identity apart from God.

Humanity cries out for purpose, cries out for leadership. For some sort of cause to rally behind, for someone or something to take the helm and steer humanity towards a Utopian future. We try our absolute best to extrapolate meaning out of this seemingly meaningless existence, only to fall flat on our faces when observing the complexity of the Universe we inhabit. 

In lieu of unity with God and seeking His council in our current state, we seek ourselves and ourselves is what we get (Eternal separation from God is the ultimate fulfillment of this). Man seeks anything other than God to fill an emptiness that only God can fill. This is apparent throughout history at the national and individual level. 


CS Lewis puts it beautifully: 

"All that we call human history - money, poverty, ambition, war, prostitution, classes, empires, slavery - is the long terrible story of man trying to find something other than God which will make him happy." -  Mere Christianity, 1952, C.S. Lewis

And that is our current predicament. And yet, there is hope.

The only person who has the solution to the problem of the human heart is the one who created it. The one who is able to peer through time because He created it. He knew humanity needed a savior, and He loved His creation so much that he sent that Savior and His name is Jesus

Oh, and yes I said Jesus was a person. He made the decision to bind himself to a 3-dimensional body within 4-dimensional space, all of which He created. He became a man, lived a sinless life, and died on a cross for sins of humanity. The absolute epitome of love. 

Think about that. The God of the Universe literally became creation, bound himself within His creation, and died within creation for His creation; humanity.

The infinite dying within the finite. Division by zero. That idea is incredibly mind bending.

And that is the current State of Humanity.
